=head1 NAME

Socket::More::Resolver - Loop Agnostic Asynchronous DNS Resolving

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Automatic Event Loop Integration and support

  use v5.36;

  use AnyEvent; # or IO::Async, Mojo::IOLoop

  use Socket::More::Resolver; 
  
  getaddrinfo("www.google.com", 0, {},
    sub {
      # got results
    },
    sub {
      # got an error
      say gai_strerror $_[0];
    }


  # Normal Event loop setup
  my $cv=AE::cv;
  $cv->recv;

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Easy to use asynchronous DNS resolution with automatic integration into
supported event loops or polled manually.

It is stand alone module for small footprint, and is a part of the super
package L<Socket::More>.

Key features:

=over

=item Automatically integrates into supported event loops 

L<AnyEvent>, L<IO::Async>, L<Mojo::IOLoop> are currently supported where
detected. Driver for other loops can be easily added. Non blocking polling is
also supported.

=item Extendable Event Loop Support

The user can write a 'driver' for other event loops (and put them on CPAN!)

=item Utilises your systems C<getaddrinfo> and C<getnameinfo>

Gives the results you would expect from your system configuration

=item Pure Perl

Uses core Perl L<Socket>. If L<Socket::More::Lookup> is available it will be
used instead.

=item Threadless Self Managed Worker Pool

The non blocking and asynchronous behaviour is achieved with a fully contained
and self managing worker pool, no threaded Perl required) and optimised for low
memory usage and DNS queries.

=back

=head1 Limitations and Features to be explored

=over

=item Future/Promise API

Make a version of getaddrinfo to return Futures/Promises instead of using
callbacks, because people like those.

=item Internal mDNS Resolver

The worker pool works very well for fast DNS lookups, however mDNS lookups take
up to 5 seconds (by design), when a name is unkown. This can easily saturate
the worker pool if you ask multiple 'wrong names' quickly

=back

=head1 USAGE 

The resolver is designed to work with or without an event loop with as little
fuss as possible. Import your event loop first, if using one, then this module:

  #use AnyEvnet; #use IO::Async; #use Mojo::IOLoop
  use Socket::More::Resolver; 
  

This will perform automatic loop integration, pool management with default
options and export all symbols and automatically start the worker pool, if it
hasn't already been started. 

=head2 Import Options

Thanks to L<Export::These> managing this modules exports, module options and
symbols can be specified at import time with a hash ref in the import list:

  use Socket::More::Resolver {options}, symbols ...;

  eg
  use Socket::More::Resolver {max_workers=>10, prefork=>1}, qw<getaddrinfo>;

There a handful of options which influence the resolver operation. These are
specified as hash ref at import:

=over

=item max_workers
  
  max_worker=>number

Sets the maximum number of workers to spawn. The default is 4.

=item prefork

  prefork=>bool

Start all workers at launch instead of as needed.

=item no_export

  no_export=>1

When set to a true value, prevents the exporting of symbols into the target
namespace.

=item no_loop

  no_loop=>bool

When set prevents the integration into event loop. Testing use mainly.

=item loop_driver

  loop_driver=>string
  loop_driver=>ARRAY
  loop_driver=>CODE

Provides a hook mechanism to add support for other event loops. If a string or
array ref are provided, the contents are unshifted to the internal 'search
list' of event loop package names.  

If these packages are loaded, then the first one detected will be considered
the event loop to use. 

If a code ref is provided, package name search is bypassed and  the code ref is
used as a callback.

See the below on writing a driver.

=back



=head2 API

The API is focused on asyncrhonous usage. That means callbacks are used for
reporting results and errors.

=head3 getaddrinfo

  getaddrinfo(host, port, hints, on_results, on_error);

  eg

    getaddrinfo 
      "www.google.com",
      80,
      {family=>AF_INET}, 
      sub {
        for(@_){
          # Process results
        }
      },
      sub {
        # Handle error
      }

C<host> is the hostname or numerical address of the host to resolve
C<port> is the port of the host to use
C<hints> is hash of hints to adjust processing and restrict results
Please refer to L<Socket> or L<Socke::More::Lookup> for details on how these
values are used.

C<on_results> is callback which is called with the results from the query if no error occured.
C<on_error> is callback which is called with an error code.


The return value represents the number of oustanding  requests/messages to be
preocessed. This will always be a > 0 when resolving a host.

However, if called with no arguments, services the request queue and checks for
availability of results.  When not using an event loop this acts as the polling
mechanism:

  eq
   getaddrinfo(...);

   while(getaddrinfo){
    # poll here until all requests are processed
   }


=head3 getnameinfo 




=head1 Supporting other event loops

If you need to add an event loop which isn't directly supported, the easiest
way is to look at the code for one of the existing drivers.

TODO: document this more

=head1 How it works (High Level)

When the L<Socket::More::Resolver> package is loaded for the first time, it
initialises a pool of pipes to be used by workers.  The first 'worker', is used
as a templates process and is spawned (forked and exec) into the
L<Socket::More::Resolver::Worker>.

Lookup requests are sent to remaining workers which are active to process the
blocking request to C<getaddrinfo> or C<getnameinfo>.

Process reaping and respawning etc is automatic,

TODO: Document more



=head1 COMPARISION TO OTHER MODULES

L<Net::DNS::Native>

  Uses Internal C level threads
  Returns file handles for each resolution request
  Awkward interface for integration into event loop

L<IO::Async>

  Uses Socket module
  Purportedly asynchronouse getaddrinfo, but can block on a single slow request

L<Mojo::IOLoop>
  
  Uses Net::DNS::Native

L<AnyEvent>

  Implements it's own resolver
  Doesn't use system confuration
  Doesn't work with .local multicast DNS


